# General Notes


These notes are taken from the Data Structures Beginners Course on Neetcode io.

# <u> Date (08/28/2025) </u>

### Topic: Arrays
#### Notes: 

* Data structure
  * Data stored in RAM
  * Measured in bytes
  * Byte = 8 bits
  * Bits can be 0 or 1
* RAM is composed of values and addresses
* Arrays are always contiguous in RAM
* Addresses for integeres get incremented by 4 as each value needs 4 bytes to store.

### Topic: Static Arrays
#### Notes:

* Can read and write data
* Indexes access values and accesses locations in memory
* Accessing elements of array is O(1)
* Arrays are fixed size
* Python use dynamic arrays
* Can’t deallocate memory with static array
* Writing to any position is also O(1)
* Inserting requires shifting n elements O(n) operations
* Big O refers to the worst case
* Removing also O(n) operations as requires shifting all values
* Insert or remove from middle (n/2) which is O(n)


### Topic: Dynamic Arrays
#### Notes:

* Adding to end of array is pushing to the array
* Maintains a pointer to the last element in an array
* Pop refers to removing element from the end
* Pushing and popping is O(1)
* Idea is to allocate a brand new array that has the elements we want to store
* This new array is allocated at a different point in memory and doubles the size
* Original array is deallocated
* Allocation of the new array is O(n) operation so when we make a new array we double the capacity.
* Amortized complexity is about O(1) because on average we won’t need to reallocate new space. 
* The last term is much larger than the sum of all previous terms. Number of operations is less than 2*n where n is the size of the array. Overall, it reduces to O(n) operations.
* Adding or multiplying does not matter for Big O notation.
* Only care about the really big input sizes.
* Insert and remove O(n) operation


### Topic: Stacks
#### Notes:

* Push
* Pop - read and remove last element
* Peek/top - read last element
* All O(1) operations
* Just use the default dynamic array
* Last in is the first one removed (LIFO)
