# AI Resource Journey
## About Me

To understand the significance of this respository, I feel that you must know a little bit about me. I was one of those people who never knew what they wanted to do in life. I did my undergraduate degree in electrical engineering because I had worked on a robotics project in high school and I thought that I knew what I was doing. At the end of undergrad, I felt that I wasn't living up to my full potential and I did a PhD in machine learning because it seemed like an interesting topic at the time, but I wasn't in love with it. I wanted to know what it felt like to love something. The first few years of my PhD, I spent a lot of time trying to publish as much as possible, but none of the papers I made were interesting to me. I knew how to write a paper that was publishable, but I didn't feel good about anything that I was making. This changed in the 4th year of my PhD when I found myself constantly thinking about ML and AI. I stopped caring about whether the papers got accepted and started wandering around investigating things I found interesting and fulfilling. The more I looked at AI/ML with this perspective, the more I found myself thinking about it. It didn't improve the acceptance rate of my papers, but I found personal fulfillment in it. It reached the point where my mind was on some AI topic almost every hour of every day. I loved it.

However, at this point in my life, I almost have a PhD in ML, but I haven't created anything yet that I'm truly proud of. I want to create something that I truly think is amazing. Once I had that thought, I felt really disappointed in myself. There was so much that I wanted to learn, and I felt like I had wasted time not spending every moment of my life learning these things. I know a lot about information theory and representation learning, but I wanted to know so much about LLMs, reinforcement learning, diffusion models, graph theory, and etc. I also wanted to know how to integrate all these things from both a software engineering perspective and research perspective.

The purpose of this repository is to document this obsession of mine. I don't know if I'll ever be famous for some AI thing that I made. I don't know if I'll ever have a top NeurIPS or ICLR paper or get a fancy Research Scientist job, but I'm grateful for ML because it showed me that there was something I could do for the rest of my life that would bring me so much joy.

This repository will be my attempt at documenting everything I learn about AI for the rest of my life. I hope I can look at this repository in 50 years and be amazed at the progress of AI across time. Hoepfully I can make at least one thing that I find amazing.


## Organization of Repo
