# General Notes


The General Notes readme will have information and textbook style learning organized in a convenient fashion. This will be a general
collection that will be aggregated with less structure than the other repos.

# <u> 09/04/2025 </u>

## Topic: Stay Sane in Insane World Worksheet
#### Notes: 

* My Purpose in Life
  * I want to use AI/ML to create something that can bring joy to people. This could be art, games, amazing devices, videos, or etc. 
  * Maybe it can help people overcome struggles or maybe it's something totally useless from a practical perspective that people just enjoy using and interacting with.
* What would success look like for me?
  * Success would look like waking up everyday with my mind buzzing about the different experiments that I can try and excitement about learning
the skills that I need to bring my ideas to fruition.
  * Success would also look like finding purpose with my work. I see my work as important even.
  * Success also looks like having a positive attitude about becoming a better version of myself everyday.
  * Success would also look like finding genuine joy in the process of self improvement and being able to block out negativity like comparisons with others.
* My goals?
  * I want to write my own novel.
  * I want to learn another language.
  * I want to be an amateur comedian.
  * I want to create an interactive app of some kind that uses AI as a form of feedback mechanism.
  * I want to create a device that is able to make use of AI/ML in some way.
  * I want to create a web server that can leverage an ML model to create a fun interactive user experience.
  * I want to create a youtube channel where I can teach different concepts in a fun interactive way, showcase cool AI projects, and express myself.
  * I want to create a really impactful ML publication.
  * I want to write a book about some fun niche aspect of ML.
* Self Defeating Attitudes Holding Me Back
  * Procrastination
  * Giving Up Without Trying
  * Comparing myself with others
  * Not Studying Hard Enough
  * Making Excuses
  * Acting Inferior
* Three Specific Things I will start doing immediately:
  * Dedicate time specifically towards coding skills and ML-software oriented skills everyday
  * Stop letting my ML experimental results dictate my mood or my ability to spend time with loved ones
    * Start looking at each ML experiment as a fun direction, rather than needing a specific result.
  * Catch Myself when I start comparing with other's google scholars or cool linkedin projects.
    * Those publications are their life. I am only competing with the person that I was yesterday.
    * Only the things that I endeavor for myself have value to me.
    * Learn to use other's success as learning tools for my own growth.
